Lecture 9 : Introduction to Loops in Bash script.

In this lecture, we discussed what loops are in programming and how Bash supports different types of loops to repeat tasks efficiently. We explored the types of loops in Bash, 
their syntax, and how to use them with examples. We also learned how to automate file creation and user creation using loops and commands, along with a basic look at redirection 
and reading from files.

1. What is a loop?

In programming languages, a loop is used to perform a repeated task multiple times.
A loop is a sequence of instructions that is continually executed until a certain condition is met. It is useful for automation and repetitive tasks.

2. Types of Loops:-

There are four types of loops in Bash:
Example
    For loop: Used when the number of iterations is known.
    While loop: Executes as long as a condition is true.
    Until loop: Executes until a condition becomes true.
    Select case loop: Used for menu-driven programs or multiple options.

3. Syntax of a For Loop :-

The for loop runs commands for each item in a list.
Example:
    For variable in list
    do
        echo "Statement"
    done

4. Touch command from 1 to 100

To create multiple files at once, the touch command is used in a loop or directly:
Example:
touch file1
touch file2 file3 file4 file5

To add multiple users at once:

adduser user1 user2 user3

This is an example of smart work. You can even create 50 users or 100 files using a loop, which saves time and effort. Example:

for i in {1..50}
do
    adduser user$i
done

5. Command: ls -ltrh

This command is used to list files in the current directory with:

l: long listing
t: sort by modification time (newest last)
r: reverse order (oldest first)
h: human-readable file sizes
Example:
    ls -ltrh

6. Command: ls /etc/resolved.conf

This command lists the resolved.conf file in the /etc directory, used for DNS resolution configuration.
Example:
    ls /etc/resolved.conf

7. Command: cat abd.txt

The cat command is used to read the contents of a file.
Example:
    cat abd.txt
    Abdeali Dodiya
    from alnafi
    Bangalore, India

8. Read from loop

You can use read inside a loop to take input from a user or file line-by-line.
Example:
    while read line
    do
        echo "$line"
    done < abd.txt

9. Redirect file

Redirection is used to send output to a file instead of the terminal.
Example:
    echo "Hello Bash" > output.txt

This command creates a file output.txt and writes "Hello Bash" into it.
You can also use >> to append instead of overwrite:

    echo "Another line" >> output.txt